samples: bluteooth: CS ranging requestor sample (#18921)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/channel_sounding_ras_initiator/README.rst

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

The sample also requires a device running a Channel Sounding Reflector with Ranging Responder to connect to, such as the :ref:`channel_sounding_ras_reflector` sample.

Overview
********

The sample demonstrates a basic Bluetooth® Low Energy Central role functionality that acts as a GATT Ranging Requestor client and configures the Channel Sounding initiator role.
Regular Channel Sounding procedures are set up, local subevent data is stored, and peer ranging data is fetched.

A basic distance estimation algorithm is included in the sample.
The mathematical representations described in `Distance estimation based on phase and amplitude information`_ and `Distance estimation based on RTT packets`_ are used as the basis for this algorithm.

User interface
**************

The sample does not require user input and will scan for a device advertising with the GATT Ranging Service UUID.
The first LED on the development kit will be lit when a connection has been established.

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/channel_sounding_ras_initiator`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

> After programming the sample to your development kit, you can test it by connecting to another device programmed with a Channel Sounding Reflector role with Ranging Responder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After programming the sample to your development kit, you can test it by connecting to another device programmed with a :ref:`channel_sounding_ras_reflector` sample.
```

Author: Tried keeping it more generic like suggestion here https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/18921#discussion_r1853442607

Reviewer: Does not hurt to have a link also here.

.. _channel_sounding_ras_initiator:

Bluetooth: Channel Sounding Initiator with Ranging Requestor
############################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample demonstrates how to use the ranging service to request ranging data from a server.
It also provides a basic distance estimation algorithm to show how channel sounding can be used to estimate distance between two devices.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

> The sample also requires a device running a Channel Sounding Reflector with Ranging Responder to connect to.

Reviewer 2: Does any CS Reflector with Ranging Responder work, or does it have to be the other Nordic sample? This line (and the corresponding line in the other sample) is then either:
```suggestion
The sample also requires a device running a Channel Sounding Reflector with Ranging Responder to connect to, such as the :ref:`channel_sounding_ras_reflector` sample.
```
or
```suggestion
The sample also requires a device running the :ref:`channel_sounding_ras_reflector` sample to connect to.
```

Author: Went with the first option

Overview
********

The sample demonstrates a basic Bluetooth® Low Energy Central role functionality that acts as a GATT Ranging Requestor client and configures the Channel Sounding initiator role.

> Regular Channel Sounding procedures are set up, local subevent data is stored and peer ranging data is fetched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regular Channel Sounding procedures are set up, local subevent data is stored, and peer ranging data is fetched.
```

A basic distance estimation algorithm is included in the sample.
The mathematical representations described in `Distance estimation based on phase and amplitude information`_ and `Distance estimation based on RTT packets`_ are used as the basis for this algorithm.

User interface
**************

The sample does not require user input and will scan for a device advertising with the GATT Ranging Service UUID.
The first LED on the development kit will be lit when a connection has been established.

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/channel_sounding_ras_initiator`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

> After programming the sample to your development kit, you can test it by connecting to another development kit with a Channel Sounding Reflector role with Ranging Responder.
> 
> 1. |connect_terminal_specific|
> #. Reset the kit.
> #. Program the other kit with the Channel Sounding Reflector with Ranging Responder sample.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After programming the sample to your development kit, you can test it by connecting to another development kit programmed with a Channel Sounding Reflector role with Ranging Responder.

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset both kits.
```
I believe this covers the same information, while allowing for a user already having programmed their other kit instead of implying that the Initiator must be programmed first. Feel free to ignore if this could lead to errors when testing.

If only the other sample is valid, the CS Reflector part should be replaced with a link to the sample.

> #. Program the other kit with the Channel Sounding Reflector with Ranging Responder sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Program the other kit with the :ref:`channel_sounding_ras_reflector` sample.
```

Author: Realized this line should have been deleted as per https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/18921#discussion_r1853449957

      CS security enabled.
      CS procedures enabled.
      Subevent result callback 0
      Ranging data ready 0
      Ranging data get completed for ranging counter 0
      Estimated distance to reflector:
      - Round-Trip Timing method: X.XXXXX meters (derived from X samples)
      - Phase-Based Ranging method: X.XXXXX meters (derived from X samples)

Dependencies
************

This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:`dk_buttons_and_leds_readme`
* :file:`include/bluetooth/gatt_dm.h`
* :file:`include/bluetooth/services/ras.h`

This sample uses the following Zephyr libraries:

* :file:`include/sys/printk.h`
* :file:`include/zephyr/types.h`
* :ref:`zephyr:kernel_api`:

  * :file:`include/kernel.h`

* :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_api`:

* :file:`include/bluetooth/bluetooth.h`
* :file:`include/bluetooth/conn.h`
* :file:`include/bluetooth/cs.h`

References
**********

.. [#phase_and_amplitude] `Bluetooth Core Specification v. 6.0: Vol. 1, Part A, 9.2 <https://www.bluetooth.com/wp-content/uploads/Files/Specification/HTML/Core-60/out/en/architecture,-change-history,-and-conventions/architecture.html#UUID-a8d03618-5fcf-3043-2198-559653272b1b>`_

> .. [#rtt_packets] `Bluetooth Core Specification v. 6.0: Vol. 1, Part A, 9.3 <https://www.bluetooth.com/wp-content/uploads/Files/Specification/HTML/Core-60/out/en/architecture,-change-history,-and-conventions/architecture.html#UUID-9d4969af-baa6-b7e4-03ca-70b340877adf>`_

Reviewer: Please place these to the links.txt (docs/nrf). See https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/dev_model_and_contributions/documentation/styleguide.html#linking
